Guided transmission media:
1.Twisted pair cables:
	two conductors with its own plastic insulation twisted together
	one is used to carry signal and other acts as ground reference.
	receiver uses difference between two.
	noise may affect both wire.
	Number of twists per length has effect on quality of wire.
	types of tp cables:1.utp
					   2.stp(bulkier and expensive).
	Applications of tp:
		1.used in telephones to provide voice and data channel.
		2.DSL:unsheilded tp cables.
		3.local area network:10 Base-T,100 Base-T.
2.Coaxial cables:
	carries signals of higher frequency compared to tp cables.
	a central conductor enclosed with insulator sheath enclose with outer conductor made of foil enclosed with 
	insulating sheath.
	
	Aplication of coaxial cable:
		1.Analog telephone network.
		2.hybrid networks.
		3.traditional ethernet Lan
3.Fibre optics.
	made of glass or plastic.
	transmits signal in form of light.
	conductor made of glass or plastic enclosed by cladding enclosed by plastic buffer enclosed by Du Pont kelver
	for strength enclosed by outer jacket.
	
	Advantages of optical fibre:
		1.higher bandwidth.
		2.less signal attenuation
		3.immune to electromagnetic interference.
		3.resistance to corrosive material
		4.light weight
		5.greater immunity to tapping.
		
	Disadvantages of optical fibre:
		1.Installation and maintainance.
		2.unidirectional light propagation.
		3.cost.
	
Optical fibre>coaxial cable>twisted pair.

Unguided transmission media:
propagation methods:
	1.ground propagation (below 2Mhz).
	2.sky propagation(2Mhz-30Mhz).
	3.line-of-sight propagation(above 30Mhz.
	
1.Radio Waves:
	3khz-1Ghz 
	omni-directional.
	sky mode:travel long distance.
	low and medium frequency can penetrate walls.
	Band is relatively narrow to low data rate digital communication.
	useful for multicasting applications like television,paging,radio,etc.
2.Microwaves:
	1Ghz-300Ghz.
	unidirectional and narrowly focused.
	Line-of-sight propagation.
	need for repeaters for long distance communication.
	very high frequencies cannot penetrate walls.
	higher data rate possible due to wider band.
	useful for unicast communication like cellular telephones,staellite networks,wireless Lans.
3.Infrared:
	300Ghz-400Thz
	short range communication in closed area.
	line-of-sight propagation.
	cannot penetrate walls.
