Circuit switching concepts:
	A network built around single circuit switching node consists of collection of stations attached to 
	central switching unit.
	Central switch establishes dedicated path between any two devices that wish to communicate.
	IMPORTANT ELEMENTS OF SINGLE CIRCUIT SWITCHING NODE:
	1)Digital switch:	Provides transparent path between any two pair of connected/attached devices.
							Transparent path:It means that it appears to have direct connection between two 
							attached devices.
						The connection is Full-Duplex.
	2)Network Interface:	Represents the functions and hardware needed to connect digital devices to
							network.eg:-digital telephones,analog telephones(if network interface contains
							logic of converting analog signals to digital signals).
							Trunks to other digital switches carry TDM signals and provide links for 
							constructing multiple-node networks.
	3)Control Unit:    Performs three general tasks:
							(i)Establishing connections.(generally done on demand/request of attached
							 devices.)
							 		To establish connection,control unit must handle and acknowledge the 
							 		request,determine if intended destination is free,and construct path
							 		through switch. 
							(ii)Maintain the established connections.
									The digital switch uses time division principles,this may require 
									ongoing manipulation of the switching elements.However,the bits of the
									communication are transferred transparantly.
							(iii)Must be able to teardown connection on request of one of parties/for its 
								own reasons.
	Blocking:- blocking occurs when network is unable to connect two stations as all possible paths between
				them are already in use.
	Non-Blocking :- Permits all stations to be connected(in pairs) at once as long as the called party is 
					free.
	Space Division switching :-
PACKET-SWITCHING NETWORKS:
	I)DATAGRAM NETWORKS:
		*In data communication we need to send messages from one devices to another,if the message is 
		to be sent  by 	packet-switched networking ,then the message has to be partitioned 
		into 	packets 
		of fixed or variable size.
		*Size is determined by Network and governing protocol.
		*No resource-reservation as in circuit switched network.
		*Resources are allocated on demand.
		*Switch in datagram network uses routing table that is based on the address of destination.
		*The destination address in header of packets of datagram network remains same throughout 
		the journey of packet.
		*Switching at the Internet is done by datagram approach of switching at network layer.
	II)VIRTUAL CIRCUIT SWITCHING NETWORK :
		*A virtual circuit network is cross of circuit-network and datagram-network.If has some
		characteristics of both networks.
			*As in circuit switched network,this network has setup and teardown phases in addition to data
			transfer phase.
			*Resources can be allocated as in circuit switched network or can be allocated on demand as in
			datagram network.	
			*As in datagram network, data are packetised and each packet has address of destination in its 
			header ,but the address in header has local jurisdiction (address of next switch and channel on 
			which it is being carried.) ,not end-to-end jurisdiction(address of destination station).
			*As in circuit switched network,all packets follow the same path that is established during
			connection.
			*Virtual circuit network implemented during data link layer,
			Circuit switched network impements in physical layer and 
			Datagram network implements in network layer.
			but it may change in future.
			*A source or destination can be any device that connects other networks.
			eg:-computer ,packet,switch,etc.
			
